everybody Chris Norris here at JM play
calm and we're going to dissect a song
called demons from darkest hours record
deliver us came out in 2007 there was a
video for this song you can check it out
on YouTube or Victory Records site or
the dr. Sauer myspace stop all over the
place so let's get into it
so first thing you hear in the song is
it comes in right away everything kind
of hits you right in the chest with this
big minor 6th chord we are in standard D
tuning for this one and it's going to be
an f-sharp minor 6 chord split up among
two guitars so the first guitar is going
to play just
[Music]
and overtop of that
this shape in your left hand and that's
the notes of the minor 6 chord here's
the 6
one six there's gonna be a third of the
chord
[Music]
so you get this cord
nice little unresolved chord so the
first guitar part is going to
[Music]
playing that those top notes of that
underneath that the other guitar
[Music]
come on this nice cord here
slide down in your office
[Music]
man
leading into the song and that's doubled
up in thirds so there's a very simple
intro with a really cool rock kind of
jump beat over it and it kicks into the
first verse show you what it is
so first thing is you start out with
power cord full power cord which means
you know your fist knocking
[Music]
and then that leads into bring up this
pinkie and have this hell of a stretch
add that minor third in there bring that
note up resolve it there by bringing
your open D into it
the diminished chord
you repeat that and in place of your
diminished chord you add a B it's called
an add 9 chord root your fifth power
chord
with another power cord on top that
makes what's called an ad nine
that replaces with that rhythmic pattern
behind it
[Music]
and as you can see I'm utilizing an
upstroke on those cords
on the chord change because you have
this note up here building up in melody
and you kind of even know it's so quick
you want that note to be the strong
point what you hear first so drum up
that way can't really notice that much
of a difference but I think cancer
that's all that goes and then that
repeats again in my guitar drops to a
melody on top of that
kind of a cool little single note melody
falling down in scale and eventually it
outlines notes of those chords when it
moves down to them so that's your first
verse then there's kind of a bridge riff
coming up that repeats that verse riff
repeats later on
also you'll which you'll see in the song
demo later on so I went to you once so
let's get into the bridge riff coming up
so now we come to this transitional
bridge type riff let me just show it to
you real quick
[Music]
a pretty simple it's based upon the same
chord progression as the other riff so
far and it's got a lot of good string
skip and stuff in and I love Swedish
metal style grips that involve string
skipping so slowly the basis for it
you're going to have these pedal points
right here I'm sorry to keep coming back
to
[Music]
so that's really the melody of the part
just interjected with these pedal notes
[Music]
drop your bass note and bring this pedal
note
dissolve so you have this kind of
resolution using counterpoint
[Music]
and here for the tail and the other
guitar hangs on this so you start out
the minor third
drop down into that second which has an
unresolved sound so yeah
it's all it's really nicely to that
f-sharp and over top of that is a
instead of
[Music]
or not that you have a minor third
typical Swedish harmony that's going to
repeat later on in the song and a
different variation after you do this
you go back to that very first riff and
then you're going to come to the chorus
so I'll show you in a second
you
[Music]